now I have several prior videos in this
and I do not want to become the guy who
talks about vivisection on YouTube
however in 2016 I may be the guy who
talks about the section it's hip open
I mean other vegans just do not tackle
this or do not deal with in a sincere
way that admits of the complex gray
areas and overlapping and kind of moral
jurisdictions this is gets you into it's
easy for us as vegans to say people
should stop eating meat because they can
eat tofu but if you do the research it
is not so easy to say we should stop
doing original scientific research
because we have tofu tofu tofu cannot
render the dermis absolutely ivana skin
just you know create a fairly popular
vegan youtube channel and then sit back
and wait for someone also the contact to
you it's pretty easy as the ballast CL
recommended in one of his billions of
above us yen I would boasted here but I
don't know which one to videos it's too
many hey what's up guys one of the first
things I've said on this channel because
I think it's a really useful challenge
to the political and organizational
conceits that many vegans have was that
if you want to tackle vivisection you
have to cooperate with people who
disagree with you you have to be able to
cooperate with people who are insiders
in the system including people who
actually conduct scientific research
themselves they're the people who know
what you need to know they're the
crucial partners you've got to have on
board if you're gonna make a difference
in the real world and I got a letter I
got fan mail in effect from a guy who is
an insider who is conducting biological
research including some experiments that
exploit animals now in my prior videos I
alluded to the crucial role that
moderate people can have in these
debates and by moderates I meant
scientists who do torture animals to
death um but who are interested in
minimizing that torture so those would
be people who are not vegan but who
share with vegans the concern that some
of the animal research is unnecessary ie
that the whole experiment isn't
necessary or that the particular
suffering caused by the design of the
experiment is necessary people who see
the moral value in trying to minimize
the evils of vivisection pardon me but
people who are not abolitionists or who
are not calling immediately for an end
to all such scientific research of
course one of the reasons for that is
that they are very local people who see
see the value in it who know about
particular experiments that have had a
very positive and important outcome that
have discovered important things in the
world now I have several prior videos in
this and I do not want to become the guy
who talks about vivisection on YouTube
however in 2016 I may be the guy who
talks about the section I mean other
vegans just do not tackle this or do not
deal with it in a sincere way that
admits of the complex gray air
and overlapping kind of moral
jurisdictions this gets you into but I
was just saying to open this video I
really started talking about this issue
on this channel I think more than a year
ago now but when it what first times I
talked about it I talked about it
explicitly in terms of the importance of
being able to listen to and communicate
with and cooperate with people who do
disagree with you people are on the
other side people who are insiders and
the letter I got is from an
extraordinary insider because he is at
least vegetarian and he's vegan or semi
vegan and he cares Jay manly about
animal rights whatever you want to say
minimizing harm and suffering caused
animals but he continues to part of the
system so he he sent me this fan mail in
response to my most recent video on the
topic through the session the next 10
years
um and his perspective is frankly and
valuable it's tremendously important
even if you disagree with it so a
significant part of this video is going
to be me
reading out his letter I'm also going to
provide a link below this video to my
blog we can get the the full text of the
letter I got his permission I checked it
was already to do that many of you may
be offended or may be surprised that I
even refer to this guy as the vegan and
say well how can he be a vegan if he
tortures animals to death in a
laboratory I think the opposite question
is worth asking how can you not be if
you're engaged in torturing animals to
death in the name of science wouldn't
any really rational deep thinking person
respond to that by engaging seriously
with the ethical questions raised by
veganism like I realised this guy's
extraordinary but it's worth asking why
is this not ordinary why is this not
more common and one would hope that in
the future there will be more examples
of people who are in this kind of gray
area they care about the issues they
care about the outcomes they care about
the harm being done to animals and these
would be the very few people who has
insiders in this industry as insiders in
this area of academic research could
really cooperate with advocates for
animal rights to make political changes
happen and sorry get a I'm not
subset Informer videos but one of the
reasons why they're so critical is that
they understand the process they
understand the procedures how they work
how they don't work what have you if you
get offended by this as a vegan get
offended calm down come back watch the
rest of the video think about how you
can really make a real difference in the
real world because getting offended
doesn't help anybody and there's a
crucial sentence about halfway through
this letter where he says I agree with
you ie agrees with me
and that is in reference to my earlier
video when I said that legal changes
should be made he says to make animal
research more difficult to create more
more more barriers more obstacles to
exploitation animals and labs being
being approved what-have-you
now I will just clarify my position is
not even difficulty I mean he admittedly
difficulty as part of it but I mean if
it were just bureaucracy if it were just
a bureaucratic delay if we were just
paperwork or was just fees it was just
money being paid that companies had to
pay thousands of dollars for each rabbit
that to me would be meaningless what to
me is really interesting or questions of
transparency public accountability and
democratic procedure and that's why in
my earlier video I used the examples I
did of the proposals being put before
Parliament and where for a few months
they could actually be debated by the
press debated by the public at large and
obviously they'd be debated by people
like this guy
I see no sincerely interested parties
within the scientific community within
the scientific research community I
should say academics experts in the
industry but we're also you know animal
rights advocates would have their their
chance to stand up and make their pitch
what-have-you so I think I'm in the
earlier video I put great emphasis on
transparency public accountability and
democratic process it is true that you
can see that as just a a barrier as
something that delays and limits and
makes more difficult
research that involves experimentation
animals but the difficulty for me is not
an end in itself okay so let's get this
train wreck rolling
hello eyes'll he writes I've thought
about mailing you for a while and never
got around to it but your recent video
vivisection in the next ten years made
me think of a couple points I'd like to
share with you I'm a recent graduate
working in comparative immunology and
about to start a PhD in global health at
a major UK university I've been vegan
for just over a year and was vegetarian
before that a few years ago and went on
a four day training program on murine
slash mouse experimentation and was
about this time I went vegetarian period
so again I ask the question this is rare
this is extraordinary but in a sense we
should wonder why why is it rare why is
it extraordinary
you know I'm tempted here to add some
some autobiographical reflections but I
mean if anything on earth is going to
make you pause and reflect
philosophically on the contradictions
within our culture of of animal
exploitation it might indeed be a an
experience just such as this one I was
already thinking about that stuff when I
was a high school student to say I could
I could I could reflect on that both in
terms of lab work and in terms of look
okay we're not gonna make this this
particular video we're not gonna make
about me all right let's let's keep the
guy doing the training was Vance was
vastly experienced in animal research
having worked on everything from rats to
pigs to dogs and spent the four days
delivering material on anesthesia a
minor surgery euthanasia animal behavior
etc although he had not trained formally
as a biologist I II started out as a
young animal technician and worked his
way up I was amazed at how much he knew
about animals on the first day he gave
an introductory talk that touched on
perspectives regarding animal research
and to my surprise he actually touched
on the hypocrisy of meat-eaters who are
against animals killed for research
sorry pardon me who are against animal
research I've attached the graphic he
used in his
station which shows the magnitude of
animals killed for food versus animals
killed by cats and animals killed for
research this really made me think
deeply about my carnivorous diet and
shortly after I came home I went
vegetarian although it was a little
while before I went vegan I'm still
grateful to this guy for making me
realize whether he meant to or not that
I could no longer justify my decision to
eat meat in your video you made some
interesting but generalized points about
how animal research is regulated I can
only speak for the UK but I'm guessing
this is okay as you have both experience
living here and some knowledge of the
university system in this country it's
surprisingly difficult to obtain a
license to work with vertebrates in the
UK it's an expensive bureaucratic
time-consuming process which is
administered by an arm of the government
the home office to gain a license to
perform an animal experiment the P I
must justify completely that the
experiment cannot be achieved with any
existing in-vitro method furthermore we
have a framework known as the 3 R's
replacement reduction and refinement if
you cannot demonstrate evidence of these
3 R's in your proposal your experiment
won't happen and trust me many if not
all biologists would love to have in
feature replacements for animal
experiments working with animals is an
ethical demands fiddly surgical
procedures and can yield unpredictable
results
I work in an invertebrate lab no
licensing is necessary to work with our
animals shellfish and for this reason
researching highly conserved
immunological processes and animals like
bivalves which lack a central nervous
system is becoming more popular
I pause now already for me there were
interesting problems raised by this what
he is saying here partly confirms but
partly challenges what I have read
basically in animal rights publications
basically people who are animal rights
advocates their perspective on this same
bureaucratic system is different from
what he says now obviously I do not
believe he's lying to me and I also do
not believe that the animal rights
publications were intentionally lying to
me the
probably just reflected you know an
outsider's view versus an insider's view
etc in some ways this guy will have more
expertise but in other ways he won't in
my prior video I just offhand provided
some worst case examples
he will link to a really notorious set
of experiments called the the pit of
despair experience and so on now
animal rights activists may know a lot
of examples of that kind they may be
able to offhand provide worst case
examples whereas someone like this will
know the particular projects he's been a
part of maybe
projects friends a visit home about
through word of mouth he may know
typical examples
he may know exemplary examples we know
very positive examples where the process
really worked but he would not have
studied worst-case scenarios as much as
an animal rights activist and both of
those things entail a certain kind of
bias one of the really interesting
samples of that from elsewhere in the
social sciences you know we had a
problem in in Canada with feminist
groups who in in their studies above the
legal system worked they had only been
studying the most extreme examples of
police failing to deal with domestic
abuse you know violence within the home
and they were giving this advice to the
government and to police they were doing
education sessions for police and a
schools that were really misrepresenting
everything it was like being based on
like serial killer less than one in a
million
type examples that's that's an important
area of study in itself but informing
public policy you need to understand the
whole range like police need to
understand that more than 90% of the
time when they get a domestic abuse call
they're gonna show up with that was this
is Canada like in Canada more than that
ever since I'm gonna show up at the
house and the husband and the wife are
both drunk and sad and just screaming at
each other and the neighbor called the
police because they're making too much
noise and you know the role of the
police may be as little as separating
them and saying look you got to calm
down and the next and the next day even
things are gonna be fine
boring middle-of-the-road cases like
that police need to be prepared for that
if you're providing them only with
training and you're writing laws that
treat every scenario as a worst case
scenario that can be a terrible form of
bias so look I just say my approach to
this is very different because I
approach it from a political science
perspective not from a biological
science perspective but I mean to me
again this is interesting this is why
the different parties need to work
together for me also even though I am
aware because the articles I've read
included these these frameworks the 3
R's framework the the bureaucratic
procedures dimensions I have read
analyses of them however the analyses I
read indicated to me that they are in no
way transparent there are no way
publicly accountable that they do
transpire in secret which for me is
problematic because when they fail then
we don't know when we can't quantify it
so one article I remember which was a
group in England so this exact same
framework it's partly an EU framework
it's partly a British Pacific framework
where they were challenging the
statistics given to them by the
government they said well look you
promised this policy was going to reduce
the number of animals being tortured but
actually the numbers are increasing here
are the stats we have the stats they had
they got from the government and the
government just wrote back briefly
saying well the stats have increased but
you know they're mostly rats so don't
worry about it and then this group this
animal rights group was in the position
saying well can we have the actual
statistics like if that's your excuse
how many of them are rats how many of
them are monkeys and they couldn't get
the numbers they wanted so in terms of
transparency and public accountability
that's a very simple example you know it
was insufficient and that's a very basic
form of statistical knowledge they
wanted to actually have project details
public transparent publicly accountable
before the experiment happens that to me
would be a paradigm change ethically and
morally where it would possible for
people to to look at a project and say
well you know including colleagues in
the field because like you know there
will be people who are lifelong primate
researchers they're people been doing
vivisection on Apes their whole career
and even though from my perspective
those people may be may be morally evil
I think that really you know you may you
may really regard someone as morally
evil still that may be the person who
has the expertise to look at a proposal
and say you know
this is this is really kind of pointless
this particular experiment can't be
justified scientifically or ethically or
morally that discourse those debates
happening before the research is
approved not after when it's too late
not when it's published that to me is is
is a big change and I mean in a sense
yeah is there not philosophical or
abstract debates right they they have to
happen before the animals actually it
tortured to death etc and again look I'm
just gonna pause here to say there are
vegans who'll be offended that I'm not
just taking the simplistic abolitionists
position of saying well all of this
research has to stop and has to stop
tomorrow because I say so it's humbling
to recognize that you live in a
democratic society where you're in the
minority even if you think you're
ethically right even if you think you're
you're minority is is correct or
ethically better off than aside I have
to recognize I I'm basically
pro-democracy back in the year 2002 if
there were a referendum a democratic
process to ask if people wanted to start
a war I in the aftermath of September
11th 2001 there's no doubt Democratic
almost every Western country was willing
to start a war after September 11 2001
now it is deeply problematic to me that
virtually none of the countries actually
had a democratic process that is also
really worth questioning why do we start
wars as such an undemocratic way however
even when we think democracy and
transparency and public accountability
are tremendously important criteria we
also have to recognize the bloodlust and
indifference of the public that you know
after September 11th 2001 if there was a
public vote in the matter I think the
majority of the population is safe they
would have started a war with anybody
they didn't care whether it's Iraq or
Afghanistan or any other you know the
and if there had been a referendum on
the budget for the war for how many
years it was ten years of war at that
moment the public was was really
mobilized to be very Pro
or now the other thing I find
interesting about that is that
repetition changes the situation
profoundly being asked a question for
the second time is never the same as
being asked the question for the first
time and like with the war in Iraq okay
if the whole public would have approved
of it in 2002 if they would have gotten
that that vote
what about 2007 what if you asked
question again now it's different right
now it's been going on for five years
already you know now the public is
asking different questions now the
issues of accountability and so on are
hard to make and again obviously looking
back like the Vietnam War many people
don't realize that when the United
States first got involved the Vietnam
War there was positive support for it
even if quiet but again if you were
asking the public that question every
five years if you had a referendum every
five years as the Vietnam War progressed
American public opinion gained a level
of scrutiny and re-evaluated the short
term and long term outlook for that so I
just say uh having a truly democratic
public accountability accountable
process pertaining to animals petition
research I have no doubt that many
projects would be approved but that
would create a stark divide okay are you
going to torture a monkey to death to
allegedly find the cure for cancer and
is that claim credible and a public
scrutiny look at whether or not this
research is is legitimate or that's one
thing but you would immediately see the
disappearance of torturing an animal and
monkey to death just for psychological
research which we have had a lot of in
the Western world again I mentioned that
in the earlier video had a link to an
example but like the psychological
experiments like you're just torturing
animals death to see how miserable they
are afterwards really that is not an
exaggeration you can look into examples
that will give you nightmares
including the pit of despair experiments
yes we do have a bad history in the
Western world of torturing animals death
including monkeys and primates for no
outcome that could be justified in this
this type of situation so just say this
perspective is invaluable it doesn't
mean it's not a percent right and it's
going to have that bias I mentioned
with with feminism as an example if you
have a group of feminists feminist
activists who are only looking at
extreme examples to justify their their
perspectives cetera that's problematic
in some ways if you have someone working
inside the given industry in this case
inside the animal experimentation
biology research industry what they're
familiar with is only is likely to be
the opposite
maybe personally you're involved with
one of those terrible experiments but if
not you know you may only know about
mediocre you may have a sense of what's
average of what's normal in the industry
but you may be blinded to the extremes
and in legislation we need to be
cognizant of both with violence we need
legislation that addresses extreme
violence you know extreme human behavior
of all kinds no matter how improbable
and we also need to have social systems
that are aware of what's normal what's
average what's common and not to treat
them all in in the same category
um I continue for the time being for
many experiments vertebrate or
invertebrate animals are all we've got
pause so just mentioned in my earlier
video I said that in a pithy way where I
said look you know it's easy for us as
vegans to say people should stop eating
meat because they can eat tofu but if
you do the research it is not so easy to
say we should stop doing original
scientific research because we have tofu
tofu tofu cannot render these
experiments obsolete and this guy this
guy is vegan he identifies as vegan
obviously he would love to but as as
dark and horrifying as torturing a
monkey to death is it is not easy to
just say well we can substitute tofu and
in many of these cases you can't
substitute a human being either and so
on so again for the time being in 2016
with vegans being a despised minority
with no no power with no political ik
I'm not looking at eliminating this
absolutely because I don't think I can
within the next ten years I'm looking at
ways to make the process transparent
public countable to deepen democracy in
reference to vivisection and
that will limit it and start a sort of
long-term cyclical change that
eventually may be able to eliminate
vivisection or at least make it very
marginal very rare very exceptional
eliminate 99.9 percent of it I continue
as you point out in your video we can't
just snap our fingers and end all animal
research neither can we snap our fingers
and turn the world vegan as long as most
of the world eats meat we have
responsibility to look after the
millions of animals who live their lives
out on farms
unfortunately for somewhat obvious
reasons infectious disease eg bovine
mastitis helminth infections viruses and
poultry etc is a huge problem on farms
if there's any argument for conducting
animal experimentation to benefit human
health it is 100 fold greater if we
consider the duty we have to reduce
suffering amongst the animals who we
depend on for food I think in the UK
whether they realize it or not most of
the public accept that the use of
animals and experiments is more valuable
than their role in agriculture that's
probably why the majority the public
here support animal research however
there are still large areas of ignorance
a recent survey done in England showed
that only around half of the 4,000
participants knew that animal testing
for cosmetics is illegal here in Britain
and the EU and that importing animal
tested cosmetics into the UK is against
the law clearly testing cosmetics on
rabbits is very different from testing
vaccines on rodents so there is much
work to be done in helping the public
make the distinction between animal
testing and animal research pause now
for practical purposes for this
discussion for my viewers for the type
of people who are intelligent enough to
keep watching this channel and not just
get offended and storm out of the room
what he just said is not controversial
but it's worth pausing to consider that
that too many vegans this is
controversial the absolutist position
the abolitionist position there are many
people who would insist on the contrary
that no testing a vaccine is identical
to testing lipstick to testing cosmetics
there are vegans who refuse to make this
distinction and in many ways that's just
the debate we're all avoiding having but
you know if you're immoral
is that no research neither cancer nor
vaccine or anything else there is no
form of research that can justify
torturing an animal to death neither a
rat Nora monkey that is a position I I
respect and I think in a university
debating room Nephila in a philosophy
department I think that's a debate worth
having meanwhile down at Parliament Hill
we got to yes we could we have a real
life set of murky contradictions and
questions of what is the real difference
we can make now in the next 10 years we
got to roll up our sleeves and cooperate
with people like this this guy is
incredibly rare this guy is a vegan or a
would-be vegan or a semi vegan this guy
wants to be vegan who's working in a
laboratory currently torturing shellfish
to death you know this guy is one in a
million right now this is exactly the
person you need on your team if you have
a vegan charity a vegan organization a
vegan lobbying group you know illegally
sitting down with a lawyer trying to put
together a you know set of proposals for
for real reforms this is the kind of
perspective you really need to hear even
if you disagree with it even if it's
wrong even if it's evil
okay I've said this too many times
lately I don't want to be right I want
to win if you are gonna play to win this
is the dude you need on your team you
told me what just happened with this
cameraman screen just turned black all
right
that's a sign all right sorry about that
guys I'm actually filming this in black
and white because with so much sunlight
coming in my camera has difficulty it
doesn't render my image so we'll anyway
I'm not gonna read this entire letter
you can follow the link below the video
if you want to read every single word
that he says
but to wrap up he says this brings me to
another point you made in your video you
argue that there should be considerable
legislation in place that would make it
as difficult as possible to conduct
animal research period here I agree with
you period so do not under eight that
that that is a significance
you know concession or point or
illustrators perspective
I've already said that for me it is not
making it as difficult as possible
that's the crucial point it's making it
as transparent and democratic as
possible
he continues although we have something
like this in the UK I'd be naive to
think that it is completely serving its
purpose and that there are no loopholes
period but what I disagree with you on
is that the public should be involved in
this decision-making process when it
comes to animal research the public
plays a vital role in putting pressure
on universities and industries to
minimize animal experimentation although
the general public are not always
capable of making their views on
vivisection and a carefully considered
intellectual weigh the emotional voice
is absolutely necessary in this debate
using animals and experiments as evil
morally wrong and needs to be replaced
but should they be involved in
regulating animal experiments question
mark absolutely not how can you expect
the general public to understand the
biological arguments for or against
using a particular model alright so
again you can read his complete letter
on my blog but that is the point letter
where obviously he does disagree with me
which is cool this is a profound problem
perhaps especially within Western
academia who watches the Watchmen who is
the university accountable to I am a
sincere voice for democracy I think that
my University you know I'm in a
department I've had serious problems
with I think ultimately the professor's
have to be accountable to the students I
think the professor's have to be
accountable to the public I think the
professor's have to be accountable to
the government and currently the
problems would be see none of those
things is true I think anytime you have
a self regulating industry you get a
disaster even architecture architecture
doesn't involve torturing animals to
death
you can't simply have the architects
regulating the field of architecture one
of the reasons that apart from
corruption
apart from bias apart from cronyism
you're very powerful things within any
any field within any discipline is that
you get standards and practices
that becomes self-reinforcing over time
so you know my sense of what's normal of
what standard operating procedure of
what my professors told me was okay and
now I think is okay over time that
becomes self reinforcing and a whole
field or discipline can become deeply
immoral can accept standards and
practices that are not acceptable and
that cannot be justified precisely
because they do not need to justify it
to the public at large now one
interesting example is that again
involves academia is actually academic
research in economics there are really
interesting questions where it's like
well university professor is supposedly
giving his objective opinion about what
a company is doing or what a country is
doing about a national policy about
investing in a country or buying you
know investing money in a given country
there's a report that looks like an
objective report from a university
professor from academic expert still
with economics but actually it's being
paid for
well the standards and practices what's
been perceived as normal in terms of
providing economic consultancy by
experts of that time over over time
nobody regulates it right there's nobody
you know other professors in that field
have a feeling of what's normal they
play golf together
they play golf with the people who pay
the money right those reports over time
that becomes profoundly corrupting now
other people may have other perspectives
on this but in terms of this question to
whom are the scientists accountable my
answer is no it is not to a chorus of
their peers it is not within the
discipline or to other experts that they
will be held accountable and you may
call me a naive Democrat but no I really
do believe it must be to the public and
that you need to have organized
constituencies of the public who can
deal with those things now again I've
mentioned my own experience of City how
many times this channel it is bizarre it
is very difficult to get a group of
concerned citizens to come in and give
their opinion on a sewage treatment
plant or on a nuclear power plant but it
is absolutely crucial that you do just
that
in Toronto at the time I was involved
with City Hall there was one University
professor he was an immigrant from Italy
who had very different political
attitudes in contrast to people born and
raised in Canada he really realized the
importance of going to City Hall and
debating these things and he was point I
mean sometimes City Hall would would
publish technical documents that were
false that contained lies that were
factually misleading the public and so
it would be this one guy this one
university professor it was not being
paid for this who's taking it it's time
to try to draw the public state look
this plan is flawed what have you and
then you have a really small group of
concerned citizens who would actually
show up at City Hall asking tough
questions and pointing at look what's
going on here is at the very least
incompetent as a very interesting
example because in that case you know
there really was no no single source of
corporate corruption it wasn't that
there was one company bribing the city
to to be inept in its handling of those
issues those issues involved sewage
treatment ecology in various ways but
you had a profoundly inept local
government and ultimately you know you
needed the public to step up and you
know people who get interesting the
stuff they will gain the expertise they
need it's not that hard you know that
one professor was in effect educating a
constituency of citizens so they could
understand why this chart is flawed why
this government report is flawed what
the stakes are I mentioned an earlier
video just recently you know this issue
of just looking at the map and seeing
where the sewage is being put into the
lake and where there's another pipe that
brings in the drinking water you don't
need to be an expert to appreciate the
gravity of that but working with experts
citizens groups being organized lobbying
governments so on I
many people think I'm an extreme
pessimist on this but anyway in in
contrast to to this fellow you could say
I'm a naive optimist that no I do think
it is - it is to the public it is to the
public good it is to democracy that
scientists and tactical experts and
specialists
must be accountable how exactly
organized that is another question
that's gonna be different in England in
the United States or elsewhere okay
folks um look if you've watched this
whole video I don't care if you are in a
hospital bed and never go outside you're
a vegan activist you know very very few
people care enough to even think these
things through very few people have that
level of passion or commitment to
veganism so I want to thank you for
watching this video and literally if you
have no legs and you're confined to a
hospital bed if you've watched this
video and you're dealing with these
issues I think you're a real vegan
activist even if you never leave your
hospital bed you never leave your
apartment whatever your stuffy is
thinking about it and talking about it
at this stage in 2016 is a very
necessary precursor to real action you
know you have to recognize the problem
before you can come up with solutions
and deploy solutions and meanwhile I got
to say just a couple of days ago I was
talking to a friend online I looked at
somebody else's vegan YouTube channel
and they had videos of their grocery
shopping and forty thousand people had
watched a video probably by now it's
more people was a recent video and this
this woman filmed like she said things
like oh I bought two kilograms of brown
rice this is brown rice to kill and like
that's it the camera is just filming
that oh I bought um I bought tomato
sauce these are three jars of tomatoes
oh right in my friends thing who could
possibly find this interesting
unless you've grown up in a place where
you don't even know what brown rice
looks like or you don't know what tomato
sauce looks like if you've grown up in
some incredibly exotic distant culture
maybe this is fascinating to you but I
mean the lifestyle side of veganism and
the cuisine stead of veganism I totally
appreciate that vastly more people are
gonna be interested in watching this
stuff no matter how boring it is because
in my perspective that stuff
stoning ly boring I know what to
kilograms of brown rice look like I
can't I cannot fathom why this is a
popular form of entertainment or
educated on on YouTube but it is if you
are taking the time out of your day to
worry about this to me you're real vegan
activist and you give me hope that in
the next 10 years we really can make a
difference we can do more than just
sitting in front of our video cameras
and complaining